# Stock Tracker 

**Author: Stephen Connolly**

## Contents 

- [Project Description?](#project_description)
- [What is the goal of this project?](#what-is-the-goal-of-this-project)
- [Using the Webpage](#what-is-the-goal-of-this-project)
- [Mock Project Design](#mock_project_design)


# Project Description
	My Stock Tracker project is designed to be a dynamic platform and a go-to destination that highlights the top 10 most popular stocks on the market. It is a user-friendly tool that is designed with simplicity in mind, intended for a broad range of individuals interested in financial markets and investing such as financial enthusiasts, business professionals, journalists, analysts, advisors, and of course people who are just curious about the general stock market trends.  
	The responsive design ensures a seamless experience on both desktop and mobile devices so you can stay connected to the market on the move. It offers the audience the opportunity to monitor the stocks' performance through interactive charts that visualize stock performance. It also presents trends and patterns to allow users to track their investment progress over various time periods to make informed decisions based on real-time data. In addition to this, the inclusion of a news section keeps the users informed about events that could impact their investments. 
	On the webpage, there is a stock summary table on the left, the charts on the right and the performance and news sections towards the bottom of the page. To target user convenience, all of the information is displayed with the push of the "+" button on the stock of the user's choice. The stock summary table displays the 10 most popular traded stocks on the market in an easy-to-read table with a hover effect on both the rows and the button for aesthetic appeal. The interactive chart displays the selected stocks' performance where the user can select from numerous time periods that will present an easy-to-read graph based on the stocks' performance.  The performance table displays similar data to the chart however, it only presents the "%change" and "point change" for the designated time periods. I have decided to minimize the data used in this table to keep the data processing relatively simple for the user. Similar features to the summary table, this table shows the hover effect for each row and alternate colors for the rows of table to enhance the visual appeal of the webpage. The news arcticle section displays some of the latest news on each of the stocks. A scroll bar will be inserted to allow the user to scroll through the news articles without losing sight of all of the information above. 
	My color scheme is based on a variety of blues and light green/greys to keep the layout and information visually appealing while at the same time, having limited distractions and easy to read. My navigation bar is dark navy blue to keep that section as a focal point for the user to see what options are available before navigating through the rest of the webpage. The rest of my page is designed with pale, cool colors such as blue, grey, green and yellow for a calming visual appeal with limited distractions in order to enhance readability. My tables are designed with having light grey and green rows with a black border to make the table "pop" through the light background of the page. 
	
# What is the goal of this project? 
	It can be challenging and overwhelming, especially to novice investors, to try to navigate through various investment websites and apps that consist of numerous columns and graphs with very little context. Early on in my investing career, this was a major obstacle to overcome for me as well. Learning the terminology, understanding market trends and various performance metrics was something that almost deterred me from starting to invest. Due to my own personal challenges as a novice inverter, I became motivated to design a product that would present valuable finacial information in a clear and easy-to-read manner. My goal is for this project to become a friendly-user platform, that is accessible on both desktop and mobile, intended to accommodate a vast range of potential users. The main focus is to target user convenience by simplifying the process of tracking stock performance for investors who can efficiently monitor their chosen stocks without being overwhelmed by excessive data. 
	
# Using the Webpage
	To access the webpage, the user will just need the url: file:///Users/stephenconnolly/Desktop/StockDashboard/index.html. In the summary table, you can press the "+" button to bring up information in the other 3 windows. For example, once the Apple stock is selected, a graph will appear displaying the stock's performance over the selected timeframe. The user can select a variety of time periods listed in the heading of the chart section. Below that, the audience will see a performance table outling the "% change" and "point change" values for the specified time periods as well as a News section on the selected stock informing the user of the latest events that could impact their investments. 
	
# Mock Project Design

https://excalidraw.com/#room=daf1ae561be3f1efc615,T_2fuF1ahnqMk4znq8i5pg